Jenkins - creating Hacktoberfest recap blog post (#5685)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2022/11/2022-11-14-hacktoberfest-recap.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "A Wonderful Hacktoberfest in Jenkins"

Reviewer: I prefer titles that are short enough to fit on a single line when rendered.  The current title spans two lines and will make it a little more difficult for me to locate in the future because it does not include the year in the title.  Some of the past blog posts (2021, 2019, and 2018) included the year in the title.  Not consistent, but a preference for me.

This is an optional comment that you are welcome to ignore.
```suggestion
title: "Jenkins in Hacktoberfest 2022"
```

Reviewer 2: I understand the comment @MarkEWaite and it makes sense. The purpose, I believe, was to have a catchy (journalistic) title. Something like "A great Hacktoberfest in Jenkins 2022 edition"
But this does not achieve the "snappy title" goal.

tags:
- hacktoberfest
- event
- community
- newcomer
- outreach-programs
author: kmartens27
description: >
  Hacktoberfest 2022 was a great success for the Jenkins project.

>   This post highlights Jenkins contributions in artwork, translation, documentation, security, and new features.

Reviewer 3: I wasn't sure if we should use localization instead of translation?
```suggestion
  This post highlights Jenkins contributions in artwork, localization, documentation, security, and new features.
```

Reviewer: Both are valid contributions during Hacktoberfest.  I tend to prefer "translation" because it more precisely represents the action performed by the contributor.

Translation pull requests included https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/7230 (Russian), https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/7272 (Russian),  https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/7255 (Brazilian Portugese).

Based on the [Wikipedia definition of localization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalization_and_localization) I believe that either word could be used here.  The pull requests were translating from English into another language.  They were also adapting the software for use in that other language.

I don't recall seeing any internationalization pull requests, though I didn't see every pull  request.  If there are examples of internationalization pull requests,, then I think that we could also add "internationalization" to the list of pull request types.

For precision, I'm acting as though "translation" is the conversion of user visible text in English to text in another language.  In Jenkins, "translation" is largely a synonym of "localization" because we don't have much support for other localization techniques.

Reviewer 2: agreeing with @MarkEWaite 's point of view

links:
  discourse: https://community.jenkins.io/t/hacktoberfest-2022/3805
opengraph:
  image: /images/hacktoberfest/hacktoberfest_2022_social.png
---

As November continues, we want to share some highlights from Hacktoberfest 2022!
This year's edition was incredibly busy with lots of interesting ideas, great work, new Jenkins contributors, and returning contributors. 
We want to thank all of the contributors and mentors for all of their hard work, as none of this would be possible without them.

link:https://hacktoberfest.com/[Hacktoberfest] is an event to highlight and celebrate open-source projects like Jenkins.
The main idea of the event is contributing to and improving open-source software.

> People are invited to submit pull requests to contribute to plugins, provide documentation, create translations, and review code among other things, to engage with open-source software. 

Reviewer 2: 👍

Many products and services are based on open-source software, so giving back in this way continues the cycle of development.

> For link:https://www.jenkins.io/events/hacktoberfest/faq/[Jenkins], Hacktoberfest is an opportunity to collaborate with and expand the community, while learning and sharing with all experience levels.

Reviewer: Let's use site local links so that development copies of the site do not jump to the production site when a link is clicked.
```suggestion
For link:/events/hacktoberfest/faq/[Jenkins], Hacktoberfest is an opportunity to collaborate with and expand the community, while learning and sharing with all experience levels.
```

These contributions are what keeps Jenkins moving forward, so having an opportunity to celebrate both the project and the people is amazing.

== Hacktoberfest results

> During October, the Jenkins project received over 613 pull requests from 117 different contributors.

Reviewer: I'm accustomed to using a round number when describing "over".  Feels odd to me to show three significant figures and use the word "over" before the precise number.
```suggestion
During October, the Jenkins project received over 600 pull requests from 117 different contributors.
```

Reviewer 2: The choice is to either keep the "613" or the "over" (the "or" is exclusive 😉 ).
As the number of participants is not a round number, I vote for scraping the "over".

Author: I got rid of the "over", since this is accurate information.

> All of these helped to improve Jenkins, create new resources, and review the needs of Jenkins accordingly.

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the meaning of the phrase "review the needs of Jenkins".  Optional alternative for your consideration
```suggestion
All of these helped to improve Jenkins, create new resources, and meet the needs of Jenkins users.
```

From these, 531 pull requests are completed, meaning they have been merged or flagged as "hacktoberfest-approved".

> They were submitted by 95 different contributors, with 42 qualifying for link:https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors[swag] with Jenkins contributions alone!

Reviewer 2: Aren't repetitions ("contributors") making this phrase too heavy, @kellie-freeman ?

> They were submitted by 95 different contributors, with 42 qualifying for link:https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors[swag] with Jenkins contributions alone!

Author: ```suggestion
They were submitted by 95 different contributors, with 42 participants qualifying for link:https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors[swag] with Jenkins contributions alone!
```
@kellie-freeman @jmMeessen I was toying around with some options here, and I think participants could work, without reusing contributors constantly. Any opinions?

> They were submitted by 95 different contributors, with 42 qualifying for link:https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors[swag] with Jenkins contributions alone!

Reviewer 3: Looks good!

A total of 1,183 manually created pull requests were submitted during October in the jenkins-ci and jenkins-infra organizations.
Overall, this appears to be a 10 to 15 percent increase in the average number of monthly submissions.

> With all of this in mind, we want to highlight some of the new and returning Jenkins contributors, including their experiences and advice for other users.

Reviewer 2: 👍

> == New Jenkins contributors

Reviewer 2: We need to explain what was the methodology for getting these stories. They were randomly picked. Other participants will ask "why not me?"

First, we'd like to share some insight from link:https://github.com/Jagrutiti[Jagruti Tiwari]. 
Jagruti is Based in Mumbai, India and active in various areas of open source.
This immersion is the main component of their strategy to explore and learn new things.

> They are not afraid of challenges and have received assistance from the friendly, open-source communities. 

Reviewer: Are you using the plural pronoun "They" at the request of the person or as a matter of style?  

If the individual has a preferred pronoun, I believe that is what we should use.

If they don't have a preferred pronoun and we know their gender, then past patterns would be to use the gender specific pronoun, rather than risking confusion for non-English native readers when they try to understand the use of the plural pronoun referring to an individual.

Reviewer 2: Agreeing with @MarkEWaite. Unless we want to use her story and generalize it to other new contributors as a pattern. But in that case it should be made clearer.  
Based on the next sentence (inspiration), I vote for replacing "they" by "she"

Author: @MarkEWaite & @jmMeessen that makes total sense. I had checked profiles & other accounts to verify preferred pronouns, but did not see that information for some contributors. I tried to keep it less specific so that it would be more inclusive, but I do see the issue with translating this properly. I'll change things up and make sure that things are labeled correctly.

They are inspired by thought leaders such as Ankita Tripathi.

> Jagruti's contributions to Jenkins during Hacktoberfest includes documentation, code examples, and testing.

Reviewer: Use a plural verb
```suggestion
Jagruti's contributions to Jenkins during Hacktoberfest include documentation, code examples, and testing.
```

They have also provided reviews for other community members, which supports the open-source spirit.

We also want to welcome link:https://github.com/highflyer910[Thea Mushambadze].

> Thea created three new logos: link:https://www.jenkins.io/artwork/#turkey[Turkey], link:https://www.jenkins.io/artwork/#georgia[Georgia], and a link:https://www.jenkins.io/artwork/#nerd[Jenkins nerd] themed logo.

Reviewer 2: Re-reading my notes, her first name is Teona. And she is not a real new commer. I forwarded you her mail.

These logos help connect Jenkins to users globally and extend the community even further.
Thea is a freelance developer, and this is their first time contributing to Jenkins in Hacktoberfest.
Their motivation when starting was curiosity and learning more about open source.
Through their contributions, they have learned how to work with someone else's code.
There have been challenges when new tools are installed, but don't work as expected.
However, these are learning experiences, as each one is an opportunity to understand what is causing the behavior.

image:/images/post-images/2022-11-14-hacktoberfest-recap/thea.png[Thea Mushambadze, width=20%]

Next, we want to introduce link:https://github.com/OmkarBorhade98[Omkar Borhade] from Pune, India.
Omkar just started as a software engineer, after graduating as a Mechanical Engineer.
They are new to open source, and this was their first time participating in Hacktoberfest.
Their goal was to become more familiar the Jenkins project.

> This was acheived by a lot of reading, approaching issues with an open mind, and providing documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This was achieved by a lot of reading, approaching issues with an open mind, and providing documentation.
```

As a new contributor, they shared it can be difficult to understand the issue and what is needed for resolution.
This knowledge comes with experience, so have some patience when getting started.

image:/images/post-images/2022-11-14-hacktoberfest-recap/omkar.png[Omkar Borhade, width=20%]

link:https://github.com/krisstern[Kris Stern] is a full-stack software engineer based out of Hong Kong SAR, China.
They have previously trained as an observational astrophysicist with a PhD in physics, and is currently studying part-time for a computer science master's degree. 
This is their third Hacktoberfest, and first Hacktoberfest contributing to Jenkins.
They have contributed to open source previously for astronomy, but shifted focus since graduating.
Their goals during Hacktoberfest were giving back to the Jenkins community and acquiring more software development skills along the way.

== Returning Jenkins contributors

> First, we want to welcome back link:https://github.com/jimklimov[Jim Klimov].

Reviewer: Since this is relatively deep in the document, I hesitate to use the word "First"
```suggestion
link:https://github.com/jimklimov[Jim Klimov] is a regular Jenkins contributor.
```

Jim is based in the Czech Republic, and has been working in open source for quite some time.
They have worked on various enterprise document workflow and messaging systems, and is currently a DevOps architect.
They are the creator and maintainer of several Jenkins plugins.

> Along with their own experience, they learned a lot from the people that came before.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Along with their own experience, they also learned a lot from previous contributors.
```

Having this knowledge feels like standing on the shoulders of giants.

> This is their second Hacktoberfest in Jenkins, but contributes all year round.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is their second Hacktoberfest in Jenkins, but Jim contributes all year round.
```

> Challenges that have come up for Jim include maintainability expectations to get pull requests merged, and architecture becoming more costly as time goes on.

Reviewer: :) That's a very nice way of saying that Mark Waite is very slow to review his major pull request to the git plugins.  Jim is very kind!

> // need to get profile

Reviewer 4: I think this is me :-)

Author: Thanks @StefanSpieker !

//Stefan from Aachen (western border of Germany)
//Stefan has been participating in Hacktoberfest since 2019.
//They have a strong focus on Jenkins core and plugin development.
//This is something that Stefan likes to contribute to in their free time.
//Hacktoberfest was the trigger to start participating, and has found several areas to contribute to.
//These include projects that still have spotbugs disabled and adopting a plugin in anticipation of Hacktoberfest.
//Open-source software is used daily, especially in professional life.
//Stefan embraces this by giving back as an OSS consumer.

> //Some of the challenges faced as a contributer are setting up the environment and meeting approval expectations of a maintainer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
//Some of the challenges faced as a contributor are setting up the environment and meeting approval expectations of a maintainer.
```

//Recommendation: find a repo with clear steps (as with most Jenkins repos) => CONTRIBUTING.md, a good chat or where maintainers offer help.
//Fixing a small bug that affects you is also great because you know the issue.

== Contributor insights

[quote,Jagruti Tiwari]
____
The thrill you get from knowing that countless people are using something you built is something a swag can never match.

If an issue is too hard to solve at the moment, take a break from it and try out a different one.
____

[quote,Omkar Borhade]
____
Contributing to open source also gives a feeling of satisfaction that the projects you are contributing to are used by several people on this planet and your contributions are benefiting them in one way or another.

When you are new, it does feel scary and confusing. 
Patience is important in the beginning.
Don't be afraid to ask your doubts.

Since, my all contributions for this Hacktoberfest were to Jenkins project, I would like to thank Jenkins and team to accepts my commits, guiding me in the resolution of issues and helping me to learn and grow by the means of the project.
____

[quote,Thea Mushambadze]

> For people hesitating, there is nothing to fear.
> Start with the easiest issues, and step after step it gets more fun.
> You will notice how you grow as a developer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
____
For people hesitating, there is nothing to fear.
Start with the easiest issues, and step after step it gets more fun.
You will notice how you grow as a developer.
____ 
```

She is a freelance developer, and this is her first time contributing to Jenkins in Hacktoberfest.
Her motivation when starting was curiosity and learning more about open source.
Through her contributions, she has learned how to work with someone else's code.
There have been challenges when new tools are installed, but don't work as expected.
However, these are learning experiences, as each one is an opportunity to understand what is causing the behavior.

image:/images/post-images/2022-11-14-hacktoberfest-recap/teona.png[Teona Mushambadze, width=20%]

link:https://github.com/StefanSpieker[Stefan Spieker] is a solutions architecht and DevOps engineer from Aachen, Germany.
He has been participating in Hacktoberfest since 2019, with a strong focus on Jenkins core and plugin development.
Hacktoberfest was the trigger to start participating, and Stefan has continued to contribute regularly.
Stefan likes to contribute to open source in his free time and has found that there are always ways to improve.
For Hacktoberfest, this included updating projects that still have spotbugs disabled and adopting a plugin to become a maintainer.

> Since open-source software is used daily, especially in professional life, Stefan embraces this by giving back as an OSS consumer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since he uses open-source software daily, especially in his professional life, Stefan embraces this by giving back as an OSS consumer.
```

Author: Thanks for catching that @kellie-freeman , I had been updating the pronoun usage to match the contributor, but must have missed that when changing things.
